## Problem Set 3 

1. Define the terms: relation, tuple, attribute, record, and field.

relation: set of tables.
tuple: record or row.
attribute: colun or field.
record: represents data item in table.
field: category in a column.

2. What are keys in a relation?

Keys are used to identify and link unique records and tuples to eachother.

3. What is a surrogate key and how is it used?

A surrogate key is used to act as an identifier for a tuple in a relation. A surrogate key is
often generated by a random sequence and is not related to the actual data.

4. In the following equation, Area = Length x Width, identify the determinant(s).

Length and Width.

5. If a relation has no duplicate data, how can you be sure there is always at least one primary key?

Because all of the attributes in the relation can be identified in a unique row.

6. Give an example of a relation.  Determine a natural key for this relation.

A relation could be someone's address. Relation= (person_id, person_state, person_street, person_number).
The natural key for this would be the person's id (person_id), because it is the most logical relation
in regards to all of the other attributes. 

  For question 7 - 8, Consider product *orders*.  In particular, associated with an order is: customer name (first and last), address (street, city, state, zip), phone, email, the products orders (including item, quantity, and price).  

7. Create a relational data model for *orders*.  Consider applying normalization rules (discuss Monday)

Customers (cust_id, first_name, last_name, phone, address)
Orders (order_id, cust_id, date) Zip (zip, city, state)
Products (product_id, cost)
Order_id (order_id, product_id, ammount)


8. For customer, could email be used as a primary key?  If so, state why.  Also, if possible to use as a primary key, discuss any disadvantages of using email as a primary key.

Yes, it could; because it is unique to each person. A disadvantage may be that email's change over time.

9. Given two relations S and R below find the Cartsian Product S x R. 

A: 1  2  0
B: 2  3  0
C: 3  2  2
D: 1  2  1
E: 1  3  5







10. Find the natural join between the Faculty and Department relations below.

The natural join is the department.

S
--------------
| A | B |
|---|---|
| 1 | 2 |
| 2 | 3 |
---------

R
------------
| C | D | E |
|---|---|---|
| 3 | 1 | 1 |
| 2 | 2 | 3 |
| 2 | 1 | 5 |



Faculty
--------------
| Name | ID | Dept |
|-------|----|----------------|
| Joe | 1 | Chemistry |
| Susan | 2 | Math |
| Tom | 3 | Marine Science |
| Mike | 4 | Math |


Department
------------
| Dept | Chair  |
|---|---|
| Chemistry | John |
| Math | Mike |
| Marine Science | Barry |
